# The Modulus Operator
- The modulus operator, %, returns the remainder of a division operation. It can be applied to floating-point types as well as integer types.
- **Example**
``` 
// Demonstrating the % operator.
class Modulus {
    public static void main(String[] args) {
     int x = 42;
    double y = 42.25;
    System.out.println("x mod 10 = " + x % 10);
    System.out.println("y mod 10 = " + y % 10);
    }
}
```
- **Output**

```
x mod 10 = 2
y mod 10 = 2.25
```

# Arithmetic compound Assignment Operators
- Java provides special operators that can be used to combine an arithmetic operation with an assignment.
- In programmming, statements like 
 a = a + 4; 
 can be rewritten as 
 a += 4;
- This version uses the += compound assignment operator. Both statements perform the same action: they increase the value of a by 4.
- Here is another example,
 a = a % 2;
 which can be expressed as 
 a %= 2;
- In this case, the %= obtains the remainder of a /2 and puts that result back into a.

- The compound assignment operators provide two benefits. First, they save you a bit of typing, because they are “shorthand” for their equivalent long forms. Second, in some cases they are more efficient than are their equivalent long forms.
- **Example**
```
// Demonstrate several assignment operators.
class OpEquals {
    public static void main(String[] args) {
    int a = 1;
    int b = 2;
    int c = 3;
    a += 5;
    b *= 4;
    c += a * b;
    c %= 6;
    System.out.println("a = " + a);
    System.out.println("c = " + c);
    }
}
```
- **Example**
```
a = 6
b = 8
c = 3
```

# Increment and Decrement
- The ++ and the – – are Java’s increment and decrement operators.
- The increment operator increases its operand by one. The decrement operator decreases its operand by one.
- For example, the statement:
- x = x + 1;
  can be rewritten like this by use of the increment operator:
- x++;

- Similarly, the statement:
- x = x - 1;
  is equivalent to
- x--;

- These operators are unique in that they can appear both in postfix form, where they follow the operand as just shown, and prefix form, where they precede the operand.
- In the prefix form, the operand is incremented or decremented before the value is obtained for use in the 
expression. 
In postfix form, the previous value is obtained for use in the expression, and then the operand is modified.
- For example:
- x = 42;
- y = ++x;
- In this case, y is set to 43 as you would expect, because the increment occurs before x is assigned to y.
- Thus, the line y = ++x; is the equivalent of these two statements:
- x = x + 1;
- y = x;
- When written like this,
- x = 42;
- y = x++;
- the value of x is obtained before the increment operator is executed, so the value of y is 42. Of course, in both cases x is set to 43.
- Here, the line y = x++; is the equivalent of these two 
statements:
- y = x;
- x = x + 1;
- **program demonstrating the increment operator**
```
// Demonstrate ++.
class IncDec {
    public static void main(String[] args) {
    int a = 1;
    int b = 2;
    int c;
    int d;
    c = ++b;
    d = a++;
    c++;
    System.out.println("a = " + a);
    System.out.println("b = " + b);
    System.out.println("c = " + c);
    System.out.println("d = " + d);
    }
}
```
- **Output**
```
a = 2
b = 3
c = 4
d = 1
```