## Floating Point Types:

The floating point datatype is a family of data types that act like and differ only in the size of their domains.The floating point family of data type represents number values with fractional parts. They are technically stored as integer values :a mantissa and an exponent.
Java uses the subset of IEEE 754 binary floating point standard to represent floating point numbers and define the result of the airthmentic operations.

Data types are classified into two categories:
 * primitive
 * non-primitive
 Primitive data type includes all the predefined data types such as Integer, Character, Boolean, Floating-Point, etc.
  ```

There are two types of Floating-Point data types:
```
* float Data Type
* double Data Type

Both float and double data types store floating values but still, they are different. let us know the differences between float and double datatype in Java.

## Float Data Type:

It is a 32-bit, single-precision IEEE 754 (Standard for Floating-Point Arithmetic) floating-point number.It means that it gives 6-7 decimal digits precision. Float is a keyword to define a floating number.Its wrapper class is Java.lang.Float.There will be no data loss if we convert float to double.If u need to save memory in large array of floating point numbers and to use memory effectively use float(instead of double) because flaot takes less memory in comparision to double. To define a float value, we must use a suffix f or F. Its default value is 0.0f.

EXAMPLE:
```
float weight=44.4f
or
float weight=44.4F
```

## Description About Float Data Type:
```
Floating Point Data Type-->Float
Values-->IEEE 754 Floating Point
Bits-->32
Bytes-->4
Default Value-->0.0f
Decimal Digits-->6 decimal digits precision
Range-->3.4e-038 to 3.4e+038
Accuarcy-->Low
Precicion-->Single
Single Precision:It consists of one sign bit (S), eight exponent bits (E), and twenty-three mantissa bits (M).
```

## Intialization Of Float Data Type

```java
public class FloatDataType 
{  
public static void main(String args[])   
{ 
//lets take two floating numbers as x and y 
float x = 6.0f;
float y = 3.0f;
float z = x / y;
//divides x and y and store the result into z(z is also a floating number)
System.out.println("x/y = " + z);
}  
}  
```

OUTPUT:
```
x/y=2.0
```








