# ABSTRACTION

Data Abstraction or simply abstraction is the process of including
the essential features without including the backgroud details.
A simple example ofoe abstraction is :Driving a car.The user is aware
of the essential features of the car - like the accelerator,bracke etc
but he doesn't need to know the actual background working of the components.
An abstract class in java is a class, which is declared with an abstract
keyword. It is just like a normal class but has twp differences.
We cannot create an oject of this class. only objects of its non-abstract
(or concrete) sub-classes can be created.
It can have zero or more abstract methods which are not allowed in a
non-abstract class.



Abstract is a non-access modifier in java which is applicable for
classes, interfaces, methods, and innerclasses. It represents an 
incomplete class that depends on subclasses for its implementation.
creating subclass is compulsory for abstract class.
An abstract class can be used when we need to share the same method to all
non-abstract subclasses with their own specific implementations.
Here we have to know about the three main things they are:
*  ## Abstract menthod
*  ## Abstract class
*  ## Concrete class



# **Abstract method**(abstract)
* Here only declartion is done but no definition 
# **Abstract class**
*  Here we can not create any objects 
* Here the class contain atleast one abstract method
* The abstract class can be in two forms they are 
## **Abstract methods**
**Normal methods**
* Here the implementation of abstract is done in derived class
**Concrete class**
* Hers object can be instantrated
* Here the concrete class contains the complete defination of 
      all the methods

```java
abstract class A
{
    //it is abstract class
    abstract void display();
}
abstract class B extends AJAVAC
{
    void display()
    {
        System.out.println("Abstract menthod in A");
    }
    abstract void show();
}
class C extends B
{
    // this is the concrate class
    void show()
    {
        System.out.println("SHOW METHOD IN C");
    }
}
class AbstractMain
{
    public static void Main(string,args[])
    {
        C obj= new C();
        obj.display();
        obj.show();
    }
}
```
# output
* Abstract menthod in A
* SHOW METHOD IN C

