           ##The three oop programming
In this we have to about three things they are 
* Inheritance
* Polymorphism
* Encapsulation


Thus are the three things that we have to know 


* # Inheritance
 Inheritance in Java is a mechanism in which one object acquires all the properties and behaviors of a parent object. It is an important part of OOPs (Object Oriented programming system).

The idea behind inheritance in Java is that you can create new classes that are built upon existing classes. When you inherit from an existing class, you can reuse methods and fields of the parent class. Moreover, you can add new methods and fields in your current class also.
  

There are two classes in inheritance
* ## Super class
* ## Child class
* Super Class/Parent Class: The class whose features are inherited is known as a superclass(or a base class or a parent class).
* Sub Class/Child Class: The class that inherits the other class is known as a subclass(or a derived class, extended class, or child class). The subclass can add its own fields and methods in addition to the superclass fields and methods.


There are five types in inheritance they are:
* **Single Inheritance** :In single inheritance, subclasses inherit the features of one superclass. In the image below, class A serves as a base class for the derived class B.
```java
Single 
class Animal
{  
    void eat()
    {
        System.out.println("eating...");
    }  
}  
class Dog extends Animal
{  
    void bark()
    {
        System.out.println("barking...");
    }  
}  
class TestInheritance
{  
    public static void main(String args[])
    {  
        Dog d=new Dog();  
        d.bark();  
        d.eat();  
    }
}
```
## output
* braking...
* eating...

* **Multilevel Inheritance**:In Multilevel Inheritance, a derived class will be inheriting a base class and as well as the derived class also act as the base class to other classes. In the below image, class A serves as a base class for the derived class B, which in turn serves as a base class for the derived class C. In Java, a class cannot directly access the grandparent’s members.
```java
Multilevel 
class Animal
{  
    void eat()
    {
        System.out.println("eating...");
    }  
}  
class Dog extends Animal
{  
    void bark()
    {
        System.out.println("barking...");
    }  
}  
class BabyDog extends Dog
{  
    void weep()
    {
        System.out.println("weeping...");
    }  
}  
class TestInheritance2
{  
    public static void main(String args[])
    {  
        BabyDog d=new BabyDog();  
        d.weep();  
        d.bark();  
        d.eat();  
    }
}
```
**output**
* Weeping...
* barking...
* eating...


**Hierarchical Inheritance**:In Hierarchical Inheritance, one class serves as a superclass (base class) for more than one subclass. In the below image, class A serves as a base class for the derived class B, C and D.
```java
Hierarchical 
class Animal
{  
    void eat()
    {
        System.out.println("eating...");
    }  
}  
class Dog extends Animal
{  
    void bark()
    {
        System.out.println("barking...");
    }  
}  
class Cat extends Animal
{  
    void meow()
    {
        System.out.println("meowing...");
    }  
}  
class TestInheritance3
{  
    public static void main(String args[])
    {  
        Cat c=new Cat();  
        c.meow();  
        c.eat();  
//c.bark();//C.T.Error  
    }
}
```
**output**
* barking...
* meowing...
* eating...

**Multiple Inheritance:**In Multiple inheritances, one class can have more than one superclass and inherit features from all parent classes. It is to be noted that Java does not support multiple inheritances with classes and thus can be achieved only through Interfaces. In the image below, Class C is derived from interface A and B.


**Hybrid Inheritance:**It is a mix of two or more of the above types of inheritance. Since java doesn’t support multiple inheritances with classes, hybrid inheritance is also not possible with classes. In Java, we can achieve hybrid inheritance only through Interfaces.

# Polymorphism
In programming languages, polymorphism is the provision of a single interface to entities of different types or the use of a single symbol to represent multiple different types. In other words, polymorphism allows you to define one interface and have multiple implementations.


In Java polymorphism is mainly divided into two types:
**1.Compile-time polymorphism**: It is also known as static polymorphism. This type of polymorphism is achieved by function overloading.

When there are multiple functions with the same name but different parameters then these functions are said to be overloaded. Functions can be overloaded by changes in the number of arguments or/and a change in the type of arguments.



```java
// Java Program for Method overloading
// By using Different Types of Arguments 
 
// Class 1
// Helper class
class Helper {
 
    // Method with 2 integer parameters
    static int Multiply(int a, int b)
    {
 
        // Returns product of integer numbers
        return a * b;
    }
 
    // Method 2
    // With same name but with 2 double parameters
    static double Multiply(double a, double b)
    {
 
        // Returns product of double numbers
        return a * b;
    }
}
 
// Class 2
// Main class
class GFG {
 
    // Main driver method
    public static void main(String[] args)
    {
 
        // Calling method by passing
        // input as in arguments
        System.out.println(Helper.Multiply(2, 4));
        System.out.println(Helper.Multiply(5.5, 6.3));
    }
}
```
**output:
* 8
* 34.65




**2.Run-time polymorphism**:It is also known as Dynamic Method Dispatch. It is a process in which a function call to the overridden method is resolved at Runtime. This type of polymorphism is achieved by Method Overriding. Method overriding, on the other hand, occurs when a derived class has a definition for one of the member functions of the base class. That base function is said to be overridden.
```java
// Java Program for Method Overriding
 
// Class 1
// Helper class
class Parent {
 
    // Method of parent class
    void Print()
    {
 
        // Print statement
        System.out.println("parent class");
    }
}
 
// Class 2
// Helper class
class subclass1 extends Parent {
 
    // Method
    void Print() { System.out.println("subclass1"); }
}
 
// Class 3
// Helper class
class subclass2 extends Parent {
 
    // Method
    void Print()
    {
 
        // Print statement
        System.out.println("subclass2");
    }
}
 
// Class 4
// Main class
class GFG {
 
    // Main driver method
    public static void main(String[] args)
    {
 
        // Creating object of class 1
        Parent a;
 
        // Now we will be calling print methods
        // inside main() method
 
        a = new subclass1();
        a.Print();
 
        a = new subclass2();
        a.Print();
    }
}
```
**output**
* subclass1
* subclass2

# Encapsulation

Encapsulation in Java is a process of wrapping code and data together into a single unit, for example, a capsule which is mixed of several medicines. Encapsulation is a way of hiding the implementation details of a class from outside access and only exposing a public interface that can be used to interact with the class.

encapsulation in java
We can create a fully encapsulated class in Java by making all the data members of the class private.
* example
The Java Bean class is the example of a fully encapsulated class.
There are two class in encapsulation they are
* private
* public
In Java, encapsulation is achieved by declaring the instance variables of a class as private, which means they can only be accessed within the class. To allow outside access to the instance variables, public methods called getters and setters are defined, which are used to retrieve and modify the values of the instance variables, respectively. 