## Bytecode in JAVA:
- BYTECODE, the output of java compiler leads to security and portability of Java.
- Bytecode is a highly optimized set of instructions desiged to be executed by what is called the Java Virtual Machine(JVM), which is a part of Java Runtime Environment(JRE).
- The bytecode makes a program to run in a wide variety of environments, where there is JVM and JRE should be existing in each system.
- The use of Bytecode enebles the JVM to execute programs much faster than we expect.
- Java program that is executed by JVM helps make it more secure, because JVM can create a restricted execution environment called SANDBOX(It contains programs that prevents unrestricted access to the machine).In this way the security is also enhanced in Java language.
- The 'HotSpot' technology was introduced not so long after java's intial release for the reason that , although Java was designed as an interpreted language, there is nothing about Java that prevents on the fly compilation of bytecode to native code in order to boost the performance.
- HotSpot  provides a Just-In-Time(JIT) compiler for bytecode.
- JVM makes sure about the security and portability even when dynamic compilation is applied to bytecode.- There has been Experimentation with an ahead-of-time compiler for java.
- Ahead-of-time compiler can be used to compile bytecode into native code prior to execution by JVM, rather than On-the-fly.It has a highly specialized nature.
- Some previous versions of JDK has an experimental ahead-of-time compiler, however, JDK 17 has removed it. 



