# The Scope and lifetime of Variables

* scope of variable defines how a specific variable is accessible within the program or across classes.
  
* However,Java allows variables to be declared within any block. A block defines a scope.
  
* A variable can be declared and defined inside a class, method, or block. It defines the scope of the variable i.e. the visibility or accessibility of a variable. It also determines the lifetime of those objects

according to scope, the variables are different types :

* Instance Variables
* Class Variables
* Local Variables

In Java, the two major scopes are those defined by a class and those defined by a method.

* Method body scope variable is accessible in method body only (local variables, parameters)
* Class definition scope variable is accessible in the class definition (instance variables)

### Local Variables

* Local Variables are declared inside the method of the class. The scope of the local variable is limited to the method.

* which means You cannot change the value of the local variable outside the method and you cannot even access it outside the method.

### Instance Variables

* The instance variable is also known as a non-static variable. It is always declared in a class but outside the method, block, or constructor.

* The instance variable is created when an object of the class is created and destroyed when the object is destroyed

The initialization of the instance variable is not required, it takes the default value as 0.

Scope:Throughout the class except in static methods.

### Class Variables

* The class variables is also known as the Static Variable.They are created at the start of program execution and destroyed automatically when execution ends.

* These variables are declared similarly to instance variables, the difference is that static variables are declared using the static keyword within a class outside any method constructor or block.

To access static variables, we need not create an object of that class, we can simply access the variable as **class_name.variable_name;**

**Note:** Although blocks can be nested, you cannot declare a variable to have the same name as one in an outer scope.

