
## Evolution Of Java
- Unlike most other software systems that usually settle into a pattern of small, incremental improvements, Java continued to evolve at an explosive pace. 
# Java 1.1
- After the release of java 1.0, the designers of Java had already created Java 1.1. 
- Java 1.1 both added to and subtracted from attributes of its original specification.
# Java 1.2
- The next major release of Java was Java 2, where the “2” indicates “second generation.”
- The first release of Java 2 carried the version number 1.2.With Java 2, Sun repackaged the Java product as J2SE (Java 2 Platform Standard Edition).
- Java 2 added support for a number of new features, such as Swing and the Collections Framework, and it enhanced the Java Virtual Machine and various programming tools. The most important affected the Thread class in which the methods suspend( ), resume( ), and stop( ) were deprecated.
# Java 1.3
=======
- J2SE 1.3 was the first major upgrade to the original Java 2 release. 
Programs written for version 1.2 and those written for version 1.3 are source-code compatible.
- In general, programs written for version 1.2 and those written for version 1.3 are source-code 
compatible. Although version 1.3 contained a smaller set of changes than the preceding three 
major releases, it was nevertheless important.

# Java 1.4
- The release of J2SE 1.4 further enhanced Java. Version 1.4 maintained nearly 100 percent source-code compatibility with prior versions.
# J2SE 5
=======
- The developers kit of J2SE 5 was called JDK 5.
The “5” in J2SE 5 is called the product version number.
- The major new features of J2SE 5 are:
  - Generics 
  - Annotations 
  - Autoboxing and auto-unboxing 
  - Enumerations 
  - Enhanced, for-each style for loop 
  - Variable-length arguments (varargs) 
  - Static import 
  - Formatted I/O 
  - Concurrency utilities
# J2SE 6
=======

- The next release of Java was called Java SE 6. Sun once again decided to change the name 
of the Java platform. First, notice that the “2” was dropped. Thus, the platform was now 
named Java SE, and the official product name was Java Platform, Standard Edition 6.
- The Java Development Kit was called JDK 6. It enhances the API libraries, added 
several new packages, and offered improvements to the run time.
# Java SE 7
=======
- Here is a list of the language features added by JDK 7:
  - A String can now control a switch statement. 
  - Binary integer literals. 
  - Underscores in numeric literals. 
  - An expanded try statement, called try-with-resources, that supports automatic resource management. (For example, streams can be closed automatically when they are no longer needed.) 
  - Type inference (via the diamond operator) when constructing a generic instance. 
  - Enhanced exception handling in which two or more exceptions can be caught by a single catch (multi-catch) and better type checking for exceptions that are rethrown. 
  - Although not a syntax change, the compiler warnings associated with some types of varargs methods were improved, and you have more control over the warnings.
# Java SE 8
- The next release of Java was Java SE 8, with the developer’s kit being called JDK 8. 
- It has an internal version number of 1.8. JDK 8 was a significant upgrade to the Java language because of the inclusion of a far-reaching new language feature: the lambda expression.
# Java SE 9
- The next release of Java was Java SE 9. The developer’s kit was called JDK 9. With the release of JDK 9, the internal version number is also 9.
- The primary new JDK 9 feature was modules, which enable you to specify the relationship and dependencies of the code that comprises an application.
# Java SE 10
- The next release of Java was Java SE 10 (JDK 10).The primary new language feature added by JDK 10 was support for local variable type inference.
# Java SE 11
- The next version of Java was Java SE 11 (JDK 11).JDK 11 was an LTS release. The primary new language feature in JDK 11 was support for the use of var in a lambda expression. 
# Java SE 12 and Java SE 13
- Between the JDK 11 LTS and the next LTS release (JDK 17) were five feature releases: JDK 12 through JDK 16.
- JDK 12 and JDK 13 did not add any new language features.
# Java SE 14
- JDK 14 added support for the switch expression, which is a switch that produces a value. Other 
enhancements to switch were also included.
# Java SE 15
- Text blocks, which are essentially string literals that can span more than one line, were added by JDK 15.
# Java SE 16
- JDK 16 enhanced instanceof with pattern matching and added a new type of class called a record along with the new context sensitive keyword record. 
- A record provides a convenient means of aggregating data. JDK 16 also supplied a new application packaging tool called jpackage.
# Java SE 17
- Java SE 17 (JDK 17) is the latest version of Java. As mentioned, it is the second LTS Java release. Thus, it is of particular importance. Its major new feature is the ability to seal classes and interfaces.
## A Culture of Innovation
- Since the beginning, Java has been at the center of a culture of innovation. Its original release 
redefined programming for the Internet. 
- The Java Virtual Machine (JVM) and bytecode changed the way we think about security and portability Portable code made the Web come alive. 
- The Java Community Process (JCP) redefined the way that new ideas are assimilated into the language. The world of Java has never stood still for very long. 
- JDK 17 is the latest release in Java’s ongoing, dynamic history.
